Add Large Language Model RunInference Example (#24350)
apache/beam: website/www/site/content/en/documentation/ml/large-language-modeling.md

---
title: "Large Language Model Inference in Beam"
---
<!--
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# RunInference

> Staring from Apache Beam 2.40.0, Beam introduced the RunInference API that lets you deploy a machine learning model in a Beam pipeline. A `RunInference` transform performs inference on a `PCollection` of examples using a machine learning (ML) model. The transform outputs a PCollection that contains the input examples and output predictions. You can find more information about RunInference [here](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/transforms/python/elementwise/runinference/) and some examples [here](https://github.com/apache/beam/tree/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/inference).

Reviewer: In Apache Beam version 2.40.0, Beam introduced the RunInference API, which lets you deploy a machine learning model in a Beam pipeline. A `RunInference` transform performs inference on a `PCollection` of examples using a machine learning (ML) model. The transform outputs a `PCollection` that contains the input examples and output predictions. For more information, see [RunInference](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/transforms/python/elementwise/runinference/). You can also find [inference examples on GitHub](https://github.com/apache/beam/tree/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/inference).

## Using RunInference with very large models

> RunInference doesn't only help you deploying small sized models but also any kind of large scale models.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RunInference works well on arbitrarily large models as long as they can fit on your hardware.
```

> We will demonstrate doing inference with  `T5` language model using `RunInference` in a pipeline. `T5` is an encoder-decoder model pre-trained on a multi-task mixture of unsupervised and supervised tasks and for which each task is converted into a text-to-text format. We will be using `T5-11B` which contains `11 Billion` parameters and is `45 GB` in size. `T5` works well on a variety of tasks out-of-the-box by prepending a different prefix to the input corresponding to each task, e.g., for translation: translate English to German: …, for summarization: summarize: …. You can find more information about the `T5` [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/t5).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will demonstrate doing inference with  `T5` language model using `RunInference` in a pipeline. `T5` is an encoder-decoder model pre-trained on a multi-task mixture of unsupervised and supervised tasks and for which each task is converted into a text-to-text format. We will be using `T5-11B` which contains `11 Billion` parameters and is `45 GB` in size. `T5` works well on a variety of tasks out-of-the-box by prepending a different prefix to the input corresponding to each task. For example, for translation you the input would be: `translate English to German: …` and for summarization it would be: `summarize: ….`. You can find more information about the `T5` [here](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/t5).
```

Reviewer: Suggested text:

This example demonstrates running inference with a `T5` language model using `RunInference` in a pipeline. `T5` is an encoder-decoder model pretrained on a multi-task mixture of unsupervised and supervised tasks. Each task is converted into a text-to-text format. The example uses `T5-11B`, which contains 11 billion parameters and is 45 GB in size. In order to work well on a variety of tasks, `T5` prepends a different prefix to the input corresponding to each task. For example, for translation, the input would be: `translate English to German: …` and for summarization, it would be: `summarize: ….`. For more information about `T5`, see the [T5 overview](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/t5) in the Hugging Face documentation.

> ### How to Run the Pipeline ?

Reviewer: ### Run the pipeline

> First, make sure you have installed the required packages and pass the required arguments.

Reviewer: First, install the required packages and pass the required arguments.

> You can find the code [here](https://github.com/apache/beam/tree/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/inference/large_language_modeling/main.py)

Reviewer: You can view the code on [GitHub](https://github.com/apache/beam/tree/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/inference/large_language_modeling/main.py)

> 1. Locally on your machine: `python main.py --runner DirectRunner`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Locally on your machine: `python main.py --runner DirectRunner`. Note that you will need to have 45 GB of disk space available to run this example.
```

> 2. On GCP using Dataflow: `python main.py --runner DataflowRunner`

Reviewer: 2. On Google Cloud using Dataflow: `python main.py --runner DataflowRunner`

> ### Explaining the Pipeline

Reviewer: ### Pipeline steps

The pipeline can be broken down into few simple steps:
1. Reading the inputs
2. Encoding the text into transformer-readable token ID integers using a tokenizer
3. Using RunInference to get the output

> 4. Decoding the RunInference output and printing them

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Decoding the RunInference output and printing it
```

The code snippet for all the 4 steps can be found below:

{{< highlight >}}
    with beam.Pipeline(options=pipeline_options) as pipeline:
        _ = (
            pipeline
            | "CreateInputs" >> beam.Create(task_sentences)
            | "Preprocess" >> beam.ParDo(Preprocess(tokenizer=tokenizer))
            | "RunInference" >> RunInference(model_handler=model_handler)
            | "PostProcess" >> beam.ParDo(Postprocess(tokenizer=tokenizer))
        )
{{< /highlight >}}

> We now closely look at the 3rd step of pipeline where we use `RunInference`.
> In order to use it, one has to first define a `ModelHandler`. RunInference provides model handlers for `PyTorch`, `TensorFlow` and `Scikit-Learn`. As, we are using a `PyTorch` model, so we used a `PyTorchModelHandlerTensor`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the 3rd step of pipeline we use `RunInference`.
In order to use it, you must first define a `ModelHandler`. RunInference provides model handlers for `PyTorch`, `TensorFlow` and `Scikit-Learn`. Since the example uses a `PyTorch` model, it uses the `PyTorchModelHandlerTensor` model handler.
```

Reviewer: In the third step...

Reviewer: RunInference provides model handlers for `PyTorch`, `TensorFlow`, and `Scikit-Learn`. Because the example uses a `PyTorch` model, it uses the `PyTorchModelHandlerTensor` model handler.

{{< highlight >}}
  gen_fn = make_tensor_model_fn('generate')

  model_handler = PytorchModelHandlerTensor(
      state_dict_path=args.model_state_dict_path,
      model_class=T5ForConditionalGeneration,
      model_params={"config": AutoConfig.from_pretrained(args.model_name)},
      device="cpu",
      inference_fn=gen_fn)
{{< /highlight >}}

> `ModelHandler` requires parameters like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `ModelHandler` allows you to specify parameters like:
```

> * `state_dict_path` – path to the saved dictionary of the model state.
> * `model_class` – class of the Pytorch model that defines the model structure.
> * `model_params` – A dictionary of arguments required to instantiate the model class.
> * `device` – the device on which you wish to run the model. If device = GPU then a GPU device will be used if it is available. Otherwise, it will be CPU.
> * `inference_fn` -  the inference function to use during RunInference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `state_dict_path` – the path to the saved dictionary of the model state.
* `model_class` – the class of the Pytorch model that defines the model structure.
* `model_params` – the dictionary of arguments required to instantiate the model class.
* `device` – the device on which you wish to run the model. If device = GPU then a GPU device will be used if it is available. Otherwise, it will be CPU.
* `inference_fn` -  the inference function to use during RunInference.
```
